You're gonna do the following.
Number one, you need to go find
our base styles from any of
the codepens that we've written recently.
Grab your base styles and
drop it into your codepen.
Number two, take a look at the styles
that you've been given here and
make changes to whatever's there.
So for a hint, what I'm talking about,
we were given a body element with a font
family of Poppins by default, right?
We can just delete that, right?
We have a body element already
styled up in our base.
Make sense?
Okay, so that's what I'd like for
you to do next.
I'd like you to copy over the base, see
if there's anything in here that you can
delete because it's duplicative of what
you already have in your base styling.
And then third see if you can work on
styling that just looks like this,
don't worry about
the hamburger button part,
just see if you can get a start
on this styling here, okay.
See if you can make that much happen
by modifying the CSS that you have.
Let's go through the changes that
you might have made to your CSS for
the desktop version of this layout only.
So, first of all, what we did was we
went back to one of our old codepens of
the more recent old codepens and
copied in our base.
So we copied in our base layer and
we put that at the top of our CSS.
Next thing that I did was I set up a layer
to go around all of the styles that
already exist right there and
I call that layer header because
it's the header of the webpage.
Makes sense?
Super exciting stuff.
At that point now we need to think about
which of these styles do we need to keep,
what do we need to modify and
what can we get rid of.
Make sense?
Anybody have any styles
that they got rid of?
We already mentioned the body style it was
there, it had a font family of Poppins,
we got rid of that.
Okay, well, generally speaking,
you can always assume like,
if it says h1 all by itself,
do we already have an h1 style?
We do.
So that can go bye bye.
[LAUGH] Just get rid of things like that.
We scroll on down here,
we get to our action styles.
Do we even have any action styles anymore?
No, we got rid of them.
So you can get rid of
the styling it pertains to that.
And that would also pertain to
the action styles for focus and hover,
we can just get rid of those.
As always if you're scared,
just comment them out.
All right.
Make sure that they do what you expect.
And then after that we can sort of
guess the rest of what's here, may or
may not be relevant.
So let's go from there.
So let's start with this h1, that
probably bothering a lot of you, right?
Our h1 is called Magenta Lime, it's blue.
What should it be?
>> White.
>> White, our cursive font, right?
What would be a selector to set that up?
>> You could give h1 a class.
>> You could give h1 a class, right?
We gonna give h1 a class of some kind and
put a style in here.
What else could we do?
>> Id of top and then to h1 and a.
>> And h1, and
then potentially even a like that, right?
Because we're talking about it's a link.
When we look at our HTML, right,
we have a header, we have an h1, and
then we have our link.
Yeah, makes sense.
So let's do that, top h1 a,
font-family, right?
var(--cursive).
Color: var(--white) Okay.
Closer, looks a little big, doesn't it?
Okay, so we can change the size, right?
Font size, and you can experiment with
the font sizes that you have, but I
think you'll find that var(--h3) is close
to the size that we actually want here.
All right.
And when I hover over this, you want
that name, band name to change, color?
Would you like that?
Yeah, that would totally be cool,
wouldn't it?
So let's set up a hover style.
Top h1 a:hover.
What color would you like?
>> Cyan.
>> var(--cyan).
>> I suppose maybe lime or
the pink given that there in the logo.
>> Lime?
>> Fuchsia, magenta.
>> Lime, magenta.
[LAUGH] So you can test any of those,
whatever your favorite happens to be,
you can keep it.
Yeah?
>> There seems to be a transition there.
>> Yeah, look at that.
Where's that coming from?
Can anybody find it in the CSS?
Take a look at your CSS and
see if you can find where that weird
transition thing is coming from.
It'll be in those styles that
are outside the media query.
So how do you think about this problem?
We know it's a link, right?
So we're gonna look for A's.
[LAUGH]
>> Is it 174?
>> Yeah, around line 174,
somewhere in here.
For me, it's 165, but it's this one here.
top > nav a:focus, top > nav a:hover.
There's a transform there
which makes it bigger, okay?
So that's close.
It doesn't look like it's
getting bigger though, does it?
Okay, so keep looking.
We need an A.
>> There's on line 169.
id top a, and there's, I have a footer in
here still I'll just delete that, but.
>> Okay.
Delete the footer.
>> Looks like there's a transition of.
>> Yeah, right here.
For me is around line 150,
somewhere in there.
top a.
So here we have a transition.
And what are we transitioning?
We're doing a transform and
a color and a box shadow, okay?
This definitely applies,
some of that is happening,
it looks like the color is happening.
Maybe the box shadow, not entirely
sure on that, but not the size.
Make sense?
Okay.
So that's how you figure that stuff out.
You just sort of go well,
what what do I think it might be and
then take a look and
see if you can find something close.
Do you like it?
Do you wanna keep it?
Great, let's keep it.
That's your next thing you ask yourself,
right?
Yeah, or
you ask your designer friend, right?
Can I keep it?
It's so cool, can I keep it?
[LAUGH] All right, great.
So next, we have,
Let me make this a little bit bigger.
Okay, there's our fine
navigation up there.
[LAUGH] Not quite what we want, is it?
So did anybody manage to get
some styling to work for that?
No?
You did?
>> Yeah, I put it on nav.
>> Okay.
>> And that allowed me to change the font,
but not the color.
>> Putting it on nav allowed you to
change the font, but not the color.
Great, so you just did top nav right here,
this one?
>> I just wrote a new-
>> You wrote a new style.
>> Yeah, and I just did nav.
>> Okay, top nav and no greater
than sign then that's what you did.
Okay, we don't need this flex grow
thing we can get rid of that.
So here for top nav.
So what Andrew is saying is if
we go to font-family Pacifica,
or sorry, var(--cursive), right?
The font changes but
the color stays blue even if we
say our color should be var(--white),
right?
Why doesn't the color change?
We know we have the right selector because
our font changed, but the color didn't.
What's going on?
>> You have to select the a tag
in order to change its color.
>> Got to select the actual
a because that's more specific.
Where we have to get through from nav,
we have to get through the ul, the li, and
into the a before we actually get to the
where the color is normally set, right?
If you think about links in a default HTML
webpage, no styling, how do they look?
>> Blue
>> They're blue and underlined, right?
>> We have to get that far in
override that style, okay?
>> Is that for links specifically?
>> That is for links specifically because
they have that style on them that's coming
from the browser.
Yep, so we can go to either top a,
as we know all of these
styles that are here apply
to everything that's here in our document.
But we have earlier in our
document we have top h1 a,
even though that comes earlier
it's more specific, right?
Cuz it's got three selectors in it,
the ID and
two HTML elements as opposed
to this more generic top a.
Make sense?
So if we want this to apply specifically
to our nav bar we can say top nav a.
That's one way to do this.
And then we can change our color
from 048 to color var(--white)
Cool?
And for some reason,
we just got an underline on Magenta Lime.
Did anybody get that?
Yeah, well,
I guess this no longer applies.
So we can add that back
here in our top h1 a.
Text-decoration: none.
There it goes.
While we're here at our top h1,
let's also say margin zero.
Because our h1 has
a margin on it by default.
Oops, sorry, that's in the wrong spot.
We need just a plain old top h1.
Top h1, margin 0.
That's causing part of
our alignment problem.
See how nicely that now aligns when we
turn off that top margin on our h1.
Remember h1s have margin on it by default.
Comes from your web browser.
>> Did we not reset that
When we did the base?
>> I think we left some margin
on our h 1's from the base.
But a great point,
you might actually depending on your base,
you might have turned it off.
Okay, so we've got our h1, we've got our
a's now let's worry
about our layouts here.
So we started here with display flex and
a gap of 1.5 rems, okay?
So what is this top style applying to?
What are its children?
We have the h1, we have a button,
and we have the nav, right?
So basically it's putting a 1.5
rem gap in between your h1,
your button, and your nav, right?
Anybody want a bigger gap?
Maybe we need to do some other
things here with our layout.
Make sense?
Okay.
So, here's what I recommend.
After we go display flex
let's go flex-flow: row wrap.
Actually, nothing on here will
look like it changes, but
it's good to call this out because
by default the value is row nowrap.
And that would mean that if
your screen gets small enough,
nothing will wrap onto the next line.
It will get cut off.
So by saying row wrap, we know that
this is gonna at least wrap and
stay on the screen.
Then I'm gonna say
justify-content: space-between.
And that will push these two things apart.
H1 goes down here,
nav bar goes down there.
Very, nicely.
The button is invisible on desktop, so
we don't have to worry about it right now.
So the gap kind of becomes
irrelevant at this point for
that because we're gonna
keep these apart that way.
Make sense?
Okay.
We can set a max-width here, max-width.
This is desktop, so
let's say it's 1200px for our max-width.
And we can center it on the page,
and give it a little bit of margin.
I'm gonna say 4rem 2rem.
So it's not shoved up against
the edges of the webpage.
Makes sense?
How's everybody doing so far?
Okay.
Yes.
>> Are any of the reset
CSS files useful or
should we only use those
when starting new projects?
>> You are welcome to use reset CSS
files if you wish, but as you say,
if you start using these at
the beginning of your project,
right, then that's gonna
apply to everything else.
To try to bring in a reset CSS right
now in the middle of our project,
we'll change a whole lot of
stuff here in our document.
[LAUGH] We probably don't
really wanna do that.
The other thing to mention is that there
is a difference between a reset CSS and
a normalize CSS, okay?
So a reset CSS is the older
way of doing things.
What that does is it turns everything off.
So it gets rid of all the font sizes, it
gets rid of all the spacing, the margin,
and then you have to redeclare
everything in order for
that to become a reasonable style sheet.
The normalized style sheet will
normalize padding, margin,
font sizes and
stuff between all of the browsers.
So if you like using
normalized stylesheet,
you are more than welcome to use those.
I haven't used them here,
mostly because, again,
this is more of a teaching exercise,
a learning exercise.
I want you guys to become cognizant of
where some of the styling is coming from,
some of it's coming from the browser and
so
that is why I'm not using
them here in this project.
In real life and most likely you
would in fact use one of these.
All right, so everything is looking
pretty good here now for desktop.
Anybody have any comments or questions
on that except, looking pretty good.
Comments, questions?
The one thing you might wanna do is maybe
you wanna put a little bit of space
here between the the logo and
the bandname and
you could do something like
that if you go into your h1 and
we go into our span somewhere in here,
we have to scroll a while.
There we go.
I'll give my span a class of bandname.
And then I could put in
a style here of bandname.
And I could say,
padding-left: 1rem.
Just give us a little breathing room
between our logo and the name of the band.
Make sense?
Okay.
We have a good hover state for
the bandname.
How about the hover state here for
our navigation items?
Anybody happy with that?
>> Not in particular.
>> Okay, shall we fix it?
Tell me where the style is that
we need in order to fix our
hover state here for
these navigation items.
>> 186, mine might be different, but
there's nav a:focus, nav a:hover.
>> Right here.
Yeah, exactly.
Yep, right here.
So somewhere around, for me it's 172,
but that's what we're looking for.
top nav a:focus and top nav a:hover.
So this is currently set to black and
it's set to scale.
Do you like it?
>> No.
>> What would you like to change it to?
Shall we change that color?
>> Cyan.
>> You want the cyan?
Okay, var(--cyan).
Okay, so when we hover over those, they
turn blue, but they're still getting big.
Do you like that?
Yeah?
Maybe?
No?
[LAUGH]
>> Terrible.
>> [LAUGH] Okay, so it's up to you.
If you wanna keep it, you can have it.
If you wanna get rid of it,
you can do that too.
If we don't want it, what should we
eliminate from our code to get rid of it?
>> Transform.
>> The transform, right?
So if you don't like it,
get rid of the transform.
And then things will not change size
when you roll your mouse over and
we just get our color change.
Okay?
>> What's the difference between hover and
focus?
>> So, focus is what happens, if you've
ever tabbed through a web page before.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, you get that box around stuff.
That's the focus state.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.